Hello, Auntie.  I'm a new Buddhist and haven't started going to
the temple yet, so I don't understand much about Buddhist
teachings.  All I know is that I'm doing volunteer work
to accumulate more merit, Auntie.  I read
online that there's a ceremony to awaken Bodhicitta on
June 19th at Ba Vang Pagoda.  But I don't
understand what that holiday is about and why we have to
cultivate Bodhicitta on that day and
not another day.  What benefits would one receive if they developed the Bodhicitta
aspiration on that day
?  Also, what happens if someone
is assigned to work at the temple that day and
cannot attend the Bodhicitta initiation ceremony
?
Thank you, teacher.
This is related to our work
on June 19th.  For
us Buddhists.  Then Yen would like to answer like this.
Regarding the aspiration for enlightenment, the teacher has already explained it
.  Let's understand the concept of Bodhicitta (the aspiration for enlightenment) in a simple way that's
easy for us to remember.  It is because we have
resolved to practice and study to seek enlightenment and liberation.
Seeking enlightenment and liberation.
So, if one only seeks enlightenment and
liberation, is that considered the Bodhi mind?   When
enlightenment and liberation are attained, so
too are the Arhats (enlightened beings).  And was there any difference between the Buddha
Shakyamuni's attainment of
supreme enlightenment and other forms of enlightenment?  That is to say,
Buddha Shakyamuni
brought the Dharma to sentient beings for their
practice.  However, Arhats only practice and attain enlightenment through the
Buddha's teachings, and
they only transmit the Buddha's teachings
to sentient beings; they
are not enlightened beings who have attained the same state of enlightenment as
Shakyamuni Buddha, like other fully enlightened beings
.  The fully enlightened ones
are those who have attained enlightenment through practice and transfer their knowledge and
practice to save sentient beings.  That is the fruit
of developing the Bodhi mind.  Are they different
?  Other.  Therefore, those who wish to
cultivate the Bodhi mind must practice and study
Buddhist teachings, seek enlightenment for themselves, and then
bring Buddhist teachings to enlighten
others. Only then will they have the karmic conditions to practice and
attain supreme enlightenment.  So, is
it different today?   Let's
add a little more, let's know a
little more, let's teach others a little more,
instead of waiting until we
attain liberation before we start helping
sentient beings.  Throughout countless eons, the
Buddha developed the Bodhi mind and practiced the
Bodhisattva path.  We also cultivate the Bodhi mind and
we also practice the Bodhisattva path.
That's it, even we, the smallest of us, can
help others in their spiritual practice.
Therefore, on the day of aspiring to enlightenment,
those of you who have been
taught about the Bodhi mind should make a
vow to cultivate the Bodhi mind, and on that day, you should
perform your duties to support
others in cultivating the Bodhi mind.  That
's the person who has attained enlightenment, right?
In other words, the aspiration for enlightenment must be accompanied by the practice of
enlightenment in order to achieve
supreme enlightenment.
We read the ten virtues of
Samantabhadra Bodhisattva.  First, we pay homage to the Buddhas.  Secondly, we
praise the Tathagata.  Third, practice extensive almsgiving
.  Fourth is repentance for past karmic transgressions.  The year
is a matter of personal merit.  Sixth, we implore the Buddha to
turn the Dharma around.  There.  Continuing in this manner up to the eighth stage, one
completely practices the Bodhisattva path.  And
the ninth is to dedicate the merit to all
sentient beings.  Dedication of merit isn't just about saying it
verbally; when we
pay homage to the Buddhas, we must also
explain at length to others who the Buddhas are,
why we should pay homage to them, and
what blessings we receive from doing so, right?  Encourage
others.  That's the ninth vow
.  Nine is the dedication of merit to all beings.
Therefore, the first eight parts are based on
self-awareness.  What is the ninth sense?
Enlightenment.  That is, by helping others attain enlightenment and practice
cultivation, we can then
achieve the tenth vow.
The ten vows of Samantabhadra are ten practices that help
us cultivate and seek supreme enlightenment,
achieving the supreme enlightenment fruit as outlined in the
ten vows of Samantabhadra.
Therefore, we must not only
make the Bodhi vow, but we
must also make the vow to perform Bodhi deeds
.  So, all of us Buddhists
here see this: firstly, if
we don't kill, then we Buddhists
will make a vow.  Anyone who still kills living beings
should make a vow to gradually give up
killing.  Gradually eliminate them.  First and foremost, one must refrain
from killing human beings.
Furthermore, for those who have not yet diligently practiced Buddhist teachings,
let us make a vow to
diligently practice them.  Those who haven't
yet made such extensive offerings—like us—should
make that vow.  For example, if last year
we vowed to donate 1000 each month,
now we donate 100. That
means our hearts have broadened.  Last year, I was
n't able to rejoice in the merits of others, so
this year I vow that each day I will
contemplate the merits of my fellow practitioners
once, so that I can rejoice in them once. Is that alright
?   The teacher
praised the merits of the
Dharma teacher after listening to the Dharma lecture.
He praised the encouragement he received from his fellow practitioners.
What kind of pleasure is that?  Rejoice in the merits.  In the past, it
might have been a whole month without being able to spontaneously give money
.  Now, can I cultivate a more expansive and joyful heart,
rejoicing once a day
?  Is it okay to be happy when you see people doing
good deeds out there?  That's
how your mind will expand.   Expand it,
please.  Then, when I go to the temple, I ca
n't participate in the duties of helping
others practice their faith.  So now let's make a
vow to do some volunteer work.  Now, the
third retreat for students is coming up.  That's the third term
.  So you've come here to be nurtured
into the teachings of
Buddha, to live with gratitude and filial piety, and to
learn to rely on the Buddha's teachings.
So, do we cultivate the Bodhi mind and sow the seeds of
Buddhist teachings for others?  If you have the chance, please
go to the temple to do volunteer work.
What kind of Bodhisattva aspiration is it when you see the next generation
of Buddhists coming to the temple to sow the seeds of
Buddhism, yet you turn a blind eye and offer no
support whatsoever to them?  So
how can one develop the Bodhi mind then
?
So, try your best to come here and sow seeds of kindness
for the children, so that they can
find happiness in the Buddha's teachings and
see the dedicated care of Buddhists for
them. That is a form of exemplary conduct,
everyone.
Because of my work, the children are grateful and
love Buddhism. Seeing that all the elderly people
work tirelessly day and night to take care
of me, speaking kindly and showing love and
care, they tell the
Buddhist devotees that they are so good.  So, in many other lifetimes, will
it have the opportunity to cultivate a connection and become our spiritual friend
?
Is it possible to become the future generation of
Buddhist practitioners?
That is the aspiration for enlightenment; that is to allow
the flame of Buddhist teachings to shine forth.  To
convey Buddhist teachings to everyone.  There.
Therefore, in the aspiration for enlightenment, Yen
made a vow
that in every lifetime she is born, she will cultivate the aspiration for enlightenment,
spreading the Buddha's teachings widely to
benefit all sentient beings, both herself and others.  There.  That is the
vow.  And yet, for all eternity, I will
never abandon this vow.  In
every lifetime, I will practice the Dharma and
also help those who are
connected to me to practice the
Buddha's teachings.  Did the congregation make such a vow
?
And why is June 19th chosen as the day to aspire to enlightenment
?  Because my master made the
Bodhisattva vow on June 19th, and
June 19th is the auspicious day of
Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva.  In our minds, the
Bodhisattva Avalokiteshvara is always there to relieve the suffering of all
beings.  So, can that kind of mind be called the
Bodhi mind?   The
Bodhisattva Avalokiteshvara possesses a vast and boundless Bodhi mind.
Anyone who has the same vows and aspirations as
Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva is also said to be practicing
Avalokiteshvara's virtues.  Practice the practice of Avalokiteshvara meditation.  That means
his virtuous deeds were very great.
He observed the sounds and saw the
suffering of sentient beings, so he immediately came to their rescue.  There.  But
the sound also needs to be carefully considered.  My heart
must first perform a good deed before
I can recite his name and pray for his blessings; only then will my
heart be able to receive his guidance.  Only then will
he hear our voices.  But
a bar owner slapping his son so hard that he breaks the
neighbor's leg is
unacceptable.  Because that sound was the Bodhisattva
Avalokiteshvara, who has no sensory perception.  It is a being with
perfect hearing, great compassion, and profound spiritual sensitivity.  The
Bodhisattva Avalokiteshvara remembers that there is a phrase meaning "spiritual
response."  Therefore, our hearts must be focused on others,
on the happiness of others.  It is because of doing
good deeds that this intuition develops
into something like a perfect ear.  Pine needle.  That means
he sees and knows everything clearly.  He only saves those beings whose actions are
in accordance with the virtuous path
.  Because the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas are there to
save sentient beings.  Now, a
murderer is shouting "Mô Linh, the miraculous Bodhisattva Avalokiteshvara
!"  So the Bodhisattva saved its
life, only for it to kill another 100 people.
So, that's not the Bodhisattva Avalokiteshvara's blessing, is
it?  The Bodhisattva Avalokiteshvara's virtue is to save only
those who will bring benefit
to all sentient beings.  Either a filial person, or a
righteous person, or a person who lives faithfully and loyally
.  That means we must cultivate a
pure and virtuous mind so that
when we encounter
difficulties or obstacles, reciting
the name of the Buddha will bring about a response
.  That's because I made the vow on
June 19th, which is the anniversary of his birth.
Today, we also remember his virtuous deeds
very much, and we practice his
vows, making
vows so that we can cultivate ourselves.
[music]